All right, cool.
So I hope you're enjoying the ARKit Tutorial so far.
There's going to be so much more awesome stuff that's coming up. So in the last few lessons,
we saw how easy it was to create cubes and spheres and add materials to them, and put them into our real
world using ARKit.
Now, we could continue modeling our cube or adding texture maps to it to try and make it look like a
dice.
But there's actually a much, much easier way. We can simply import a 3D graphic of a dice that someone
else has already created in Blender.
So Blender is this awesome open-source piece of software that allows you to create really, really lifelike,
really awesome 3D graphic assets.
And unfortunately, I don't really have the artistic talent to be able to show you how to create these
amazing things. But I can show you how we can easily incorporate and use 3D models that other people
have created.
And all you need to do is to go to a website called turbosquid.com and they have a huge catalog
of 3D models including free ones, as well as paid ones.
So if you go to turbosquid.com and you search for "dice," then you can see that a whole bunch of dice
shows up and you have to sort the results for the file format DAE. So the DAE format is something that
will be compatible with our sceneKit.scn file and we can actually convert it into an SCN file.
And because we're doing this as a tutorial, I'm just going to look for objects that are free.
So zero to zero price range.
And then let's have a look and see what we've got.
So we've got three options and I think this one to me looks the nicest and the most realistic.
So you're going to have to sign up for a free account for TurboSquid in order to download anything.
But once you've done that, then it's as easy as hitting download, and it'll show you a whole bunch of
different files that you can download and they're all zipped.
So the one that you want and the one that is going to work with our project is DiceCollada.
So the DiceCollada is the one that has the file format DAE. And this is the one that you're going to
want to download and incorporate into your file.
So once you've unzipped that DiceCollada.zip file, then you'll see that it includes a whole bunch
of files.
And the main thing that you're interested in is this DiceCollada.dae file.
That's the main model of the dice.
The other things are essentially materials and textures.
The one that we're going to be using for our project is the New_RedBase_color.png.
So all we need to do is select the DiceCollada.dae and also select the New_RedBase.Color.png
and we're going to drag both of those into our art.scnassets folder.
And now, we can have a look at our dice.
So the first thing is that when you open it, you might not see anything.
And this is pretty worrying if this is the first time you are creating a new ARKit project, but
if you open the document inspector, and you can see you've got this dice object.
And if you change the camera to the front camera, then you can see that you've got a dice.
Now, the dice isn't particularly visible because its material is this dull white.
And what we want is we want to change it to that material that we incorporated which is the
New_RedBase_Color.
And all you have to do is--do you remember previously we were setting the diffuse on our object that we created?
Well, you can also set it inside the interface builder for these scene files and DAE 3D models.
So all you have to do is click on the dropdown list. And instead of this ugly gray color, we can choose
our own texture which is going to be the New_RedBase_Color.
And now you can see that our object looks a lot more like dice. It's actually got faces and numbers and
we're going to render this in augmented reality.
So there's a couple of things I want to draw your attention to.
One thing is that inside the node inspector, if you have the dice selected, you can see what is the size
of the Bounding Box.
And it's basically the cube that will contain this dice object. And you can see at the moment, its default
width and height is about 1 centimeter by 1 centimeter by 1 centimeter.
Now, you can scale it up or down just by dragging this toggle or just double-clicking and typing it in.
Now, a good reference point is that you remember how big the ship was when we rendered it,
right?
And if you select on the shipMesh node, you can actually see how big the bounding box of this ship is.
And it's absolutely huge.
It's 48 meters by 17 by 46 meters.
But the reason why it can appear in your room is because it's scaled down. So it's scaled down to only
2 percent of each of those values which makes it reasonably sized in order to be displayed.
If you want to quickly compare how big your dice is when compared to the shipMesh, you can actually just
select the shipMesh and hit command C to copy it, and then put it in as a node inside your Dicee.
So let's change again to front camera.
So this is what we see when we actually open the app. And let's double click on the shipMesh to see
where that ship is. And you can see there are dice.
It's that tiny little object over there.
So you remember how big the ship was?
Now, you can see how big the dice is when compared to that ship.
So it's pretty small.
And if you want, you can scale up the dice, say, if you want a giant dice throw on the floor in your app,
then you could simply just change that scale up or down.
But for me, I'm actually going to keep it at this size because it actually seems to work quite well for
a dice app.
Now, the other thing that I want to show you is that you might notice that the ship is a scene file,
But our DiceCollada is a DAE file. And you can actually convert a DAE file into a .scn really
easily. Just select the file and then go to Editor, convert to SceneKit scene file format, and it will do
that for you.
So DiceCollada.scn.
So, now we can go into our ViewController and we can go about adding some code to bring our dice into
our app.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to comment out all of this code that's related
to our sphere.
So I'm going to comment out all of that, but I'm going to leave that line of code for the default lighting.
All right, cool.
So the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to uncomment that little bit of code that we had from
earlier on that rendered the plane.
But we're going to edit this slightly, I'm going to delete this line and I'm going to change this from
rendering the ship to our DiceCollada.
And remember that you have to keep the capital there,
otherwise, it won't recognize it.
All right.
So there's our diceScene and let's call it that to make it more explicit, diceScene.
And then we're going to create a diceNode to create a 3D position to put our dice.
So we're going to say let diceNode = diceScene.rootNode.childNode. And we're going to
use the method that's going to look for the childNode that has a particular name. And to find the name,
all you have to do is go into that DiceCollada file, select the diceNode. And you can see that it has
an identity attribute and this is the name that you're looking for.
So I'm just going to copy that and put it here.
So we're going to look for a childNode inside the rootNode of the diceScene that is created from
this diceCollada.scn file, and then we're going to set recursively as true.
So what that recursively does is that it basically allows you to search through the tree and include
all of the subtrees in the childNode.
So what does that all mean.?
If you have a look inside the shipScene, so you can see that shipMesh is a child nodal ship and emitter
is a childNode of shipMesh.
So if we were looking for emitter, but I happen to use the shipMesh identity, if I had recursive, then
it'll include and search for that emitter childNode as well.
It basically just goes down into the tree and looks at all levels to find that name shipMesh.
But in our case, it's looking for something called dice inside this diceCollada.scn.
And even though it doesn't really need to be recursive because we know that it doesn't have any childNode
branches, it's just a good habit,
so that when you do have more complicated scenes, then your code will still work.
So, now that we've created our diceNode, we need to give it a position, so diceNode.position.
And, again, we're going to be using the SCNVector 3 to create this position.
And in this case, I'm going to set the X as zero in the center. The Y, I'm going to set it about the same
level as the view. And then, the Z, I'm going to set it slightly closer in front of me,
so I'm just going to set it to minus 0.1, instead of minus 0.5 which we had
a little bit too far away, I think, for the dice because it's so small.
And the last thing we need to do if you remember same is up here, we just need to tap into that sceneView
that we've got, select the scene that's inside the sceneView, select the rootNode, and add our new
diceNode as a childNode.
All right.
So that's almost done.
But you see one error from Xcode. At the moment, you can see that diceNode is an optional
and that's because it might search through your tree and find nothing with the name dice. In which case,
then diceNode is going to equal nil.
So this line is fine because we're using optional chaining to see if diceNode exists,
then we will set the position.
But this is a little bit more problematic.
We're trying to put the diceNode inside our scene.
But what if it's nil, then our app will crash,
right?
So if you decided to just force unwrap it, then you could get into some really hairy situations.
So I'm going to wrap everything inside an "if let" just to be safe.
So, basically, if dice node is not nil and this succeeds, then we are going to set its position and also
we're going to add it as a childNode. So we no longer need the optional because for us to enter in here,
then diceNode has to equal something.
So let's give it a spin.
And that's all you need to do to add a 3D model into your app
using ARKit. So have a look at TurboSquid and see some of the other cool things that you can put
into your app.
There are thousands upon thousands of 3D models that are really, really awesome, and you can use the same
technique that we used to bring in a dice into our app to bring anything else, maybe a 3D model of a
heart,
or maybe you want to plant some trees, whatever it may be. Go nuts and be sure to let me know if you
create anything cool.
We'd love to check it out and congratulate you.
So I hope that was fun.
In the next lesson, we're going to take it to the next level.
So one of the things you might have noticed is that our dice at the moment is floating in midair which
is terribly unrealistic.
So on the next lesson, we're going to enable plane detection,
and this is something that is really cool in ARKit.
It basically allows you to detect flat surfaces in order to place your object onto those surfaces.
And it's going to allow us to put our dice onto a table or onto the floor and it'll look a lot more
realistic.
So all of that and more on the next lesson, I will see you there.